Docs/polishing 2 (#19)
wiktor-obrebski/type-safe-errors: README.md

# Type-safe errors in TypeScript

## Overview
`type-safe-errors` provides type-safe domain-specific errors to Typescript.  

The library offers an async promise-like interface and ensures type safety with easy-to-handle errors.

> ## Table Of Contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Motivation
With our library we addressed following problems:

1: In Typescript rejected promises lose their types and properly type them is annoying.
2: Not every error path in code should be handled with throws. Sometimes it is more natural to think about an error as just result of logic.

## Table Of Contents
```

Author: included similar section with some refactored copy

### Basic example

In this example, we demonstrate how to use the `type-safe-errors` library to handle user authorization with a simple username and password check.

```ts
import { Ok, Err } from 'type-safe-errors';

class InvalidCredentialsError extends Error {
  name = 'InvalidCredentialsError' as const;
}

// Function to authorize a user based on their username and password

> function authorizeUser(username: string, password: string) {

Author: one of the main point of the library is that types should be always when it possible properly inferred. this can suggest the reader that such return type definition is required to use the library.

> function authorizeUser(username: string, password: string) {

Reviewer: In Some project part of returning types is mandatory so in my opinion or we should show full example or we can add additional one

> function authorizeUser(username: string, password: string) {

Author: imo way in which I do not prefer the library be used should be one of first examples in README. we can create some dedicated example or e.g. migrate `nestjs` example to such style in mention and link it somewhere in the main docs.

  if (username === 'admin' && password === 'admin') {
    // Return an Ok result with the user information

>     return Ok.of({

Author: like before, IMO its confusing for new user of the library to show them examples in a way that the library is not intended to be used.

>     return Ok.of({

Reviewer: As above same argument in some project there is requirement for very strict typing so we can show in one example or we can add `full typed example`

      name: 'admin',
      isAdmin: true,
    });
  } else {
    // Return an Err result with an InvalidCredentialsError instance
    return Err.of(new InvalidCredentialsError());
  }
}

authorizeUser('admin', 'admin')
  // Handle successful authorization
  .map((user) => {

>     console.log('authorized! hello ', user.name);

Author: improved, but without return type: https://github.com/wiktor-obrebski/type-safe-errors/pull/19#discussion_r1216418032

  name = 'InvalidCredentialsError' as const;
}

class UserNotFoundError extends Error {
  name = 'UserNotFoundError' as const;
}

async function authorizeUser(username: string, password: string) {
  if (username !== 'admin') {
    return Err.of(new UserNotFoundError());
  }

  // simulate async call
  const storedPassword = await Promise.resolve('admin');
  if (password !== storedPassword) {
    return Err.of(new InvalidCredentialsError());
  }

  return Ok.of({
    name: 'admin',
    isAdmin: true,
  });
}

Result.from(() => authorizeUser('admin', 'admin'))
  .map((user) => {
    // here `user` type is { name: string, isAdmin: boolean }, from `authorizeUser` return type
    console.log('authorized! hello ', user.name);
  })
  .mapErr(UserNotFoundError, (err) => {
    // here `err` is fully typed object of InvalidCredentialsError class
    console.log('Invalid user name!', err);
  })
  .mapErr(InvalidCredentialsError, (err) => {
    // here `err` is fully typed object of InvalidCredentialsError class
    console.log('Invalid credentials!', err);
  });

```
## Description

> If you work with rich business logic, it's common to use exceptions in JavaScript to represent different states of the application. The problem with this solution and TypeScript is that when you catch an exception, you lose information about its types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you work with rich business logic, it's common to use exceptions to represent different states of the application. The problem with this solution and TypeScript is that when you catch an exception, you lose information about its types.
```

}
```

By looking at this code, you cannot determine what kind of exception can happen.

> Of course, you can check the `payForProduct` body, but what if it's called by other functions? And they call more? For rich business logic, it's unmaintainable to follow all possible custom exceptions just by reading the code.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, you can check the payForProduct body, but what if it's called by other functions, which in turn call additional functions? When dealing with advanced business logic, it becomes difficult to maintain an understanding of all possible scenarios that can lead to errors solely by reading the code.
```

> Because of this, it's common to just return `500` in such cases (`express` does it by default). However, there can be many errors that should be handled differently than a `500` status code. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why, it's common to just return `500` in such cases (`express` does it by default). However, there can be many errors that should be handled differently than a `500` status code. For example:
```

## Philosophy

### Minimal API

> Keeping the API minimal reduces the learning curve and makes it easier for developers to understand and use the library effectively.

Author: this proposition have less information like original. motivate such propositions plz

> Keeping the API minimal reduces the learning curve and makes it easier for developers to understand and use the library effectively.

Reviewer: Yes but it's accualy doublely wirrten same information in other way and in my opinion first sentence is obsolete

Learning and using `type-safe-errors` should be simple and straightforward. To achieve this, the API must be as simple and intuitive as possible.

It's one of the reasons why the result class is always async (for example, [neverthrow](https://github.com/supermacro/neverthrow) has two different result types, one for synchronous and one for asynchronous results handling).

The long-term goal is not to handle every possible use case. Instead, it's to do one thing well - providing a way to handle domain exceptions in a strong-typed, future-proof way.

### Practical API
Using `type-safe-erros` should be similar in feel to work with traditional js [promises](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise). You can [map](./docs/REFERENCE.md#okmapcallback) any success result (same like you can [then](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/then) fulfilled promise) or [mapAnyErr](./docs/REFERENCE.md#errmapanyerrcallback) (same as you can [catch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/catch) rejected promise).

> You may notice that the `type-safe-error` project is somehow based on [Either](https://github.com/sanctuary-js/sanctuary-either) concept from functional programming. But the goal was not to follow the idea closely but to provide an easy-to-use API in practical js work, focused on async programming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may notice that the `type-safe-error` project is somehow based on [Either](https://github.com/sanctuary-js/sanctuary-either) concept from functional programming. But the goal was not to follow the idea closely but to provide an easy-to-use API in practical ts work, focused on async programming.
```
